.TH map2geotiff 1 "Mar 04 2009" OziTools
.SH NAME
map2geotiff \- create GeoTIFF file from OziExlorer .map file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B map2geotiff
[
.B \-?|\-\-help
] [
.B \-w|\-\-output\-wgs84
] [
.B \-p|\-\-output\-projected
] [
.B \-e|\-\-use\-epsg
] [
.B \-l|\-\-lzw
] [
.B \-t|\-\-tiled
] [
.B \-\-tile\-size\-x=\fINUM\fP
] [
.B \-\-tile\-size\-y=\fINUM\fP
] [
.B \-r|\-\-keep\-raster\-size
] [
.B \-\-keep\-tmpfiles
]
mapfile.map
.SH DESCRIPTION
The command creates georeferenced TIFF raster from OziExplorer map. Resulting GeoTIFF
can further be used in GIS applications.
.P
When successfully completed the command creates
.I mapfile.gtiff.tif
file in current directory. Make sure the raster specified in .map is accessible.
.P
map2geotiff uses OziExplorer calibration data to create georeference information
for GeoTIFF. Calibration points are used for polynomial raster transformation (warping).
As a result, georeferenced TIFF is created which contains raster along with data required
to convert pixels to geographic coordinates.
.P
Calibration point coordinates in OziExplorer .map file can be either
lat/long or projected. All geodetic datums of OziExplorer 3.95.4s are
supported as well as most of projections. 
.SH OPTIONS
.P
.B \-?, \-\-help
.RS
Print brief help on command usage and options.
.RE
.P
.B \-w, \-\-output\-wgs84
.RS
Recalculate latitude/longitude coordinates to WGS84 before saving them in GeoTIFF
or applying any projections. By default, datum specified in OziExplorer .map file
will be used. This option is useful if you plan to apply any further datum shift
to GeoTIFF data, since it could be hard to get uncommon datum/ellipsoid parameters
back from GeoTIFF.
.RE
.P
.B \-p, \-\-output\-projected
.RS
Warp output raster to apply projection specified in OziExplorer .map file
and make GeoTIFF to be referenced with projected coordinates.
.P
This option doesn't work when
.B \-r
is also set.
.RE
.P
.B \-e, \-\-use\-epsg
.RS
Use alternative datum translation coefficients. OziExplorer use three-parameter
translation to recalculate between datums. EPSG uses different parameter values
or even seven-parameter translation for some standard (yet uncommon) datums.
Using this option you can enable using alternative EPSG parameters which can
provide better results in some cases.
.P
Not all OziExplorer datums have alternatives. Currently you can get error about
unknown or unsupported datum when using this option, there is no fallback to
OziExplorer default parameters.
.RE
.P
.B \-l, \-\-lzw
.RS
Apply LZW compression to output raster data. By default raster is uncompressed.
.RE
.P
.B \-t, \-\-tiled
.RS
Create tiled TIFF.
.RE
.P
.B \-\-tile\-size\-x=\fINUM\fP
.RS
Tile width in pixels, default is 256.
.RE
.P
.B \-\-tile\-size\-y=\fINUM\fP
.RS
Tile height in pixels, default is 256.
.RE
.P
.B \-r, \-\-keep\-raster\-size
.RS
Keep raster pixel dimensions when warping. Option is useful if you prefer 
unprojected (lat/long) coordinates to georeference your GeoTIFF. Most scanned
maps have different degree-per-pixel scale in vertical and horizontal direction
due to geographic projection applied, so raster aspect ratio is changed after
warping it to lat/long. This option allows one to keep raster visually "projected"
while using degree coordinates to reference locations in GeoTIFF. 
.P
When used with
.B \-p
option, makes it ineffective.
.RE
.P
.B \-\-keep\-tmpfiles
.RS
Do not delete temporary bitmaps. map2geotiff utility creates some intermediate
bitmap files, this option disables removal of them. Use it to solve problems. 
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
# map2geotiff -p ozimap.map
.RE
.P
Create
.I ozimap.gtiff.tif
file georeferenced by projected coordinates. Projection, datum and calibration
point coordinates will be taken from
.I ozimap.map
file.
.P
.RS
# map2geotiff -rwel ozimap.map
.RE
.P
Create
.I ozimap.gtiff.tif
file georeferenced by geographic (lat/long) coordinates. Projection, datum
and calibration point coordinates will be taken from
.I ozimap.map
file. Output coordinates will be translated to WGS84 using
alternative (compared to OziExplorer) datum shift parameters.
Output raster will be LZW-compressed.
.SH AUTHOR
.P 
Mikhail Rumyantsev <dev@beonway.ru>
